Welcome back you wonderful people.
Today we're going to introduce ourselves to God.
We've installed our machines we've understood how the Course is going to work.
Let's actually get into the engine.
Now there's a tradition when we start a new programming language or a new engine.
The first thing I'm going to do is make it say hello world.
So that's what going to do.
We're going to introduce ourselves to God to do this.
We need to start a new project and we need to make it say hello world in the console.
So how do we do that.
Well if we go over to the desktop This is my nice lovely new desktop.
I've put a shortcut to got up here in the corner I'm just going to open that because I'm not open it
through Steam.
I don't have a bunch of projects and assets in here because it's empty I have nothing actually attached
I've got it right now it's going to say do you want to open the asset library.
I don't the press cancel.
If you open it and Stephen this is going to be full of stuff.
Either way it doesn't matter because what we're doing is starting a new project.
So I'm going hit new project and see an error.
Why am I seeing an error because it got all projects have to start in an empty folder so I'm going to
go to browse and I'm going to find my repo's folder.
I like to put all of my scripts in a repo folder.
That way I can find them easily to all my God projects are going to be in here.
I was like this folder and I'm to give it a new name.
It's going to be called hello got no and am hit create folder read error has gone away the green tickets
here.
Create an edit.
And here it is go in all its glory.
If I hold down the right mouse button I can look around.
We now we're not going to be messing around with 3D too much yet.
This can come later in the course.
First let's take a quick look up the top here.
You see 2D 3D script an asset library.
So to me is the two dimensional view.
This blue rectangle Here is what the player will see.
You can alter that and settings will get to that 3D view as you can imagine is the three dimensional
view.
The script is where any script you've got loaded will show and the asit library is where you'll find
asset's there like the Unity store or anything like that at the moment.
It's still under development so we're going to go back to 2D.
Let's take a quick look at some other things.
On the left hand side here is the file system.
Now the empty folder we made is this route folder.
We can make new folders in here and call it each folder and it'll show up and anything that I put into
this folder in the drive is going to show up in God.
So any asset it can read any script anything like that I can put it's the following This is where I'll
find it.
It begins with just an empty icon and a default environment.
On the right hand side we have this scene navigator.
This is where the node tree will live.
God works with scenes and nodes.
And we are going to cover those in quite a lot of detail throughout the course today.
Let's just say that a node is a basic building block and a scene is an object or place underneath that
is the inspector.
The inspector is where we can tweak values without having to go into the script it can get ree's full.
If I want to move around in order to leave you I can use these nice scroll things or I can press the
middle mouse button and move the mouse around.
I can use control to zoom in and out.
The other thing we need to know is down here we will see output debugger audio animation.
This is contextual but output.
This is where our consoles going to be.
That's the bit that we're going to print.
Hallowell too.
Now if we want to print helo world we need a script.
We need the game engine to have some behaviour to follow.
But in God you can't just run a script by itself.
Scripts sit on top of nodes.
A node can have one script and a script that has no node isn't going to do anything.
So we need to create a node in the scene tree.
Were going to click this plus symbol that's going to create a new node and every single node that comes
with goes in here.
A quick tip.
Blue is 2D.
Red is 3-d at the moment.
Let's just make a node 2.
One of the simplest possible nodes we hit create and there's my note to deep.
I'm going to left click on it and I can read rename it let's call it Greta.
Rick we have a simple node we can now attach a script to attach a script.
I'm going to go over here to the top right with this little scroll with the green plus symbol the scrolls
the script the pluses a plus plus script click it.
And here we go.
G.d. script.
And I don't need to change a thing let's create it.
Here it is.
Here's our first script.
If you want to you can control the mouse we also make the font bigger or smaller.
Put it nice and big so you guys can read it easily and you can even use this expanded box symbol on
the top right for distraction free mode.
There's a shortcut for that by the way control shift and F 11 gets you in a now this mode.
I really like this mode.
OK.
So what have we got.
We have a script that there's mostly comments.
Anything with this hash or pound symbol at the start is a comment and he put one there.
God will think it's for the user not for the engine and will ignore it for now.
Let's delete all of these comments.
We don't really need them.
So what am I looking at.
Well Line one extends notes 2D.
That's just telling the script what kind of node it's behaving like what class it's sitting underneath
we have a function we'll talk about functions a lot throughout the course but this function is quite
common.
This is a built in function function ready function ready means the moment this node enters the scene
the moment you start do this.
And underneath we have pass pass means do nothing.
So here's what a script to say the moment you're ready do nothing at all.
Let's see if that works.
A hit play is going to say Oh you haven't saved the scene shot save the scene.
And his game.
And it does nothing.
Which is fantastic is exactly what we expected.
By the way there's a difference between a dynamic language like God which is based on Python and static
languages like C++ and C sharp.
If you're used to those static languages you might be wondering Dude Where's My curly brackets right.
You want to see that.
Or depending on who you are you might want to see that curly brackets don't mean code block in golf.
In g.v. Script curly brackets have a different meaning and they're not useful here.
In order to highlight a code block that's a section of code that is going to sit within a function or
something else.
We're going to use tabs indentation is everything.
So if I make a bunch of passes in other words a script that does nothing for times.
What matters is this indentation here.
As we move along and add more things to our function we can start indenting within it.
And what this means is this pass here has these things within it.
Now clearly this doesn't make any sense.
I want to get rid of that but just bear in mind if you're used to the curly bracket convention of C++
or C sharp or language like that then the code block is defined by the indentation not the curly brackets.
So we need a script to say hello world.
For that I'm going to use the print method.
Print with some brackets.
What does print do print moves things down here into the console.
By the way if you're ever stuck with something does it hold control.
And click on it and it'll bring you to the documentation.
The documentation for God is in the engine which is wonderful.
It really makes looking things are easy.
So I'm going to close this.
And I'm back in my script.
You know notice by the way Brady the function ready is here.
If we have a whole bunch of functions that all show here and we can use this to jump between them like
bookmarks.
OK.
So what you want to print we want to print a string.
A string is a sequence of characters letters numbers spaces punctuation that means something to us as
humans.
But that God isn't going to worry about.
So inside this I right.
Hello world.
And that's our string a string is a sequence of characters letters numbers punctuation.
God doesn't care what they are it just tries to mimic them.
It's a bit like a funny Ben to say happy birthday in French.
I don't need to teach in French.
I just need to say say you are you and you that's it.
And then come repeat that sound.
And it's fine.
Everything works by the way.
Now that there's something in this function I need pass I don't need to say do nothing because it now
has something to do that won't complain.
Well let's hit play because this is the second time we've run it got I will say do you want a default
scene.
Yes.
We only have one scene.
You can make that default.
And there it is in the output in the console is hello world.
Exactly what we want.
So far so good.
How about we make this a little more interesting.
Let's talk about the concept of a variable for first what is a variable then once described a variable
to me as a box.
It doesn't really matter what's inside the box.
It just matters what the box is.
So I'm going to make a variable here and this is going to be a string variable and were going to call
it person.
And we can put stuff in the box and got I won't actually care what that is.
It just needs to lift it.
Okay so here's God.
And it knows that's the box I need.
Move it from one end of the warehouse to another.
Why God is working in a warehouse.
I don't know.
Variables are a key concept in programming of any kind now.
I've written here a string bracket person and the way we would normally write this is we would write
a variable string.
Or however the syntax language works that it got so we don't need to do that.
All I need to do is tell it there is a variable.
And here it is.
God will automatically figure out.
This is a string variable.
I don't need to do this.
I don't need to define it.
I just need to say this is a string variable which is lovely because God was a dynamic language.
It can change what type of box This is auto magically.
That's not a real word but it should be.
And just to complete this image I'm a little bit more colour on it because Ben feels that three colours
is much better than two colours his two colours and I'm going to give it some lovely eyebrows to make
Sam happy and everyone's happy.
Fantastic.
So how can we make a variable.
Well I only need this variable to exist in this function so I'm going to put it right here.
Variable elzie person equals you.
OK.
So how do I make this work.
Well I'm going to come catinat it put this little Plus symbol here.
Right person.
I close my brackets.
Now you notice I've left a space here between helo and person and always good to say hello.
And the box called person and that's just to put the box there and let us read it.
So here we go.
Hello you.
Awesome.
Now if I didn't put that space there I would get this.
You know just help you.
Now one word.
The reason being because God doesn't actually try to make sense of the strings it'll repeat exactly
what you said.
And no way here that I say put a space inside uneatable of space.
At least there.
So now we come to the challenge for this idea.
I'd like you to modify our scripts it says what are we waiting for godot in the console.
If you don't like to see something else go for it.
But try and use at least one variable.
So pause the video and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
Okay so this is pretty simple right.
So first thing I change my variable to God.
And down here I'm right.
What are we waiting for.
Don't forget the space.
And that does it.
What are we waiting for.
So nice and simple.
Before we finish off this video a quick demonstration of how set your preferences if you go down to
the editor of press editor settings you'll notice that there's all these little things you can do in
the interface including the theme.
I like the default theme but if you want let's see the alien thing you can just apply that all very
dark and grim in lots of green and I don't like it if you like arkless have some arc doesn't look like
arc to me but I like the default.
You can also tweak your own colours.
There's also a lovely connection of keyboard shortcuts and I recommend getting to know these because
some of these are really helpful.
I'll show you them as we go through the course but they really do make life a lot easier.
So in this video we've covered some really key foundational stuff.
We now know how to start our project and got our we can navigate the interface we know how to start
a script we know how to operate a console which is going to be really useful when we're trying to hunt
bugs down our code.
We understand basic variables silly string variables and how to create them.
And we know how to set up our own preferences.
It's a really good start.
Okay so that wraps it up.
I'll see you in the next video.